**Chapter 6 -- The USA and Canada**

In this chapter, we will focus on the impact of Coronavirus on the
region, thinking through political, economic and historical conceptions
of the role of the State. We will try to understand the concept of
vulnerability, analyzing differences different categories of
populations. We will focus on the measures taken by the authorities at
different scales and try to understand their differentiated impact. In
order to address those issues, we will use the resources from your
textbook (p.223-257).

 

**The course will be organized as follow:**

Readings and guiding questions for you to complete will be available on
Blackboard. You will have to manage your time to read and use the
resources. As it has been organized until now, the class will spend a
week working on each chapter. **You do not need to send me your
answers**, but please make sure you address the questions for each of
the Question and Answer live sessions that we will organize. The
questions are meant to guide your reading of the resources, and help you
understanding the important concepts.

I will organize **an online Question and Answer session through zoom
next Friday, March 20^th^ at 12.45pm** so we can discuss the concepts
and ideas mentioned in the different resources.

**A second** **Q&A session will take place on Tuesday, March 24^th^ at
12.45pm**.

You will have to complete an **online quiz on Blackboard** before
Thursday, March 26^th^.

**New course modalities will be explained on Friday 20^th^  during the
question and answer session.** If you have difficulties connecting at
this time, please let me know asap so we can make sure you are informed
and understand the guidelines.

 

1\. Read your book section on Economy, accumulation and the production of
Inequality pages 237-243. Pay special attention to the part on wealth
and inequality p. 240-241 and the part on gender pay gap p.242.

For our virtual session of Friday 20 March, using figure 6.17 (p.241)
and the figures p.242, answer to the following questions:

-   *What are wealth inequality and income inequality? How do they
    differ?*

-   *How do debt, inheritance and geography impact on distribution of
    wealth?*

-   *What factors have an impact on income inequality?*

\* *

2\. Watch this video about Welfare State and Social Policy in the USA:

[[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mlxLX8Fto\_A]{.underline}](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mlxLX8Fto_A)

Read this article about inequalities in the USA:
[[https://www.washingtonpost.com/business/2019/09/26/income-inequality-america-highest-its-been-since-census-started-tracking-it-data-show/]{.underline}](https://www.washingtonpost.com/business/2019/09/26/income-inequality-america-highest-its-been-since-census-started-tracking-it-data-show/)

For the virtual session of Friday 20 March, answer to the following
questions:

-   *What are the pillar social policies of a Welfare State? Give
    examples named in the video.*

-   *What is the Gini Index?*

-   *What does the expression systemic inequalities refer to?*

-   *How have inequalities evolved in the USA since 1967?*

\* *

3\. Read the following articles from the NY Times:

[[https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click&module=Spotlight&pgtype=Homepage]{.underline}](https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click&module=Spotlight&pgtype=Homepage)

[[https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/15/world/europe/coronavirus-inequality.html?action=click&module=Top%20Stories&pgtype=Homepage]{.underline}](https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/15/world/europe/coronavirus-inequality.html?action=click&module=Top%20Stories&pgtype=Homepage)

For the virtual session of Friday 20 March, answer to the following
questions:

-   *How do you explain the geographic distribution of Coronavirus cases
    in the USA Territory?*

-   *What social and economic factors increase population vulnerability
    towards coronavirus? Think of concrete examples.*

 

4\. Read the following article from the Guardian:

[[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2020/feb/27/coronavirus-outbreak-us-healthcare-sick-leave
]{.underline}](https://www.theguardian.com/world/2020/feb/27/coronavirus-outbreak-us-healthcare-sick-leave%20)

For our virtual session of Tuesday 26 March, answer to the following
questions:

-   *Linking the article with the video you previously watched on social
    policies, what elements of the US social security system make the
    collective answer against coronavirus more difficult to implement?*

 

5\. Finally, read this article in the NY Times:

[[https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/14/us/politics/congress-coronavirus-bill.html]{.underline}](https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/14/us/politics/congress-coronavirus-bill.html)

For our virtual session of Tuesday 26 March, answer to the following
questions:

-   *Is the relief bill passed by the House considering the issues you
    previously analyzed? What factors are not covered?*

-   *Look for the measures taken by Canada to fight the coronavirus.
    What are the main differences? You can also compare to the social
    and economic measures taken in France.*
