Geography 15000 -- World Regional Geography
===========================================

Instructor: Coline Chevrin

Email:
[[cchevrin\@gradcenter.cuny.edu]{.underline}](mailto:cchevrin@gradcenter.cuny.edu)

Office hours: By appointment

SYLLABUS

Course overview
---------------

This syllabus is a revised version of the original course, adapted to
the Covid-19 crisis. The course was shifted to virtual modality after
chapter 5.

Regions are the spatial expression of physical geography, as well as
economic, social and political relations. The course provides knowledge
on how the different regions (e.g., South America, Europe, the Middle
East, Sub-Saharan Africa, and others) interact with the global context;
on the diversity of their trajectories and their specific development
patterns. It develops critical analysis of the relationship among the
different regions and on the link between space and societies. More
broadly, the course aims to develop critical thinking regarding the
concepts of development, globalization, sustainable development and
situated knowledge.

This course is a geographic approach to the world's regions current
issues considering their social and economic practices, their historical
and political specificities, their cultural identities and environmental
landscapes. We will develop a critical analysis of those questions
through the specific lens of the pandemics and the particular challenges
it raises in each region.

Students will learn to use and analyze spatial data from maps,
statistical tables, internet resources and press resources. They will
have to follow world current debates and events and articulate them with
the contents developed in class.

**[Course objectives and learning outcomes:]{.underline}**

By the end of the course you will be able to:

1.  Understand the links among people, places and regions.

2.  Analyze the specificity of each world region and their relationship
    with each other using a wide variety of sources and material.
    Critically put in perspective those relationships regarding
    processes such as colonialism, globalization, development,
    environmental crisis and climate change.

3.  Understand how the covid-19 crisis is articulated with these
    processes.

4.  Engage critically with development patterns and projects emerging
    from the different regions as a response to those challenges.
    Compare them and understand their historical and epistemological
    grounds.

5.  Identify how categories such as race, class, gender can impact those
    relationships specifically.

6.  Use fundamental geographical concepts (e.g. scale, place, space,
    region, borders) and methods (e.g. thematic maps, population
    pyramids, interactive digital maps) in order to develop your
    arguments.

**Email Policy**

I encourage you to email me with any questions about the class. When you
email me, however, you must do so from your \@myhunter email address.
You must also sign your message with your name as it appears in
CUNYfirst. I do not respond to personal email or to email without a
signature. Remember to include "GEOG 15000" in your subject line. You
should expect a response from me within 24 hours. But allow 48 hours
over the weekend. Remember that professionalism is expected in the
communication through email (I encourage you to check the website
[[netiquette]{.underline}](https://chroniclevitae.com/news/964-dear-student-my-name-is-not-hey)
if you have any doubt).

Required Textbook
-----------------

Marston, Knox, Liverman, Del Casino, and Robbins. *World Regions in
Global Context: Peoples, Places, and Environments,* 6^th^ edition.
Pearson Prentice Hall: 2017. ISBN: 10:0-134-18364-9.

Grading
-------

Final grades for the course will be determined according to the
following percentages:

**Participation in class (10%)**

Class participation begins with regular connection to Blackboard. Zoom
Q&A sessions will be organized twice a week for each chapter, according
to the planned class schedule (Tuesdays and Fridays from 12:45pm to
2:00pm). You are encouraged to attend and engage in the discussions,
however due to the specific circumstances and new obligations linked to
stay at home policies and adjusted work schedules, there is no
obligation to attend.

Completion of the quizzes will be considered as class participation.

**Quizzes (40%)**

There will be a short quiz by the end of each chapter. The quizzes will
be multiple choice and will cover the material taught in each chapter.
They will be accessible on Blackboard for an hour over a period of 48
hours.

Student who miss a quiz due to the specific circumstances will have the
possibility to ask for an exceptional re-opening of the test.

**Essay (50%)**

Students will have to write one short essay as a midterm. The essay will
be an analysis on one of the issues mentioned in class (500 to 700
words). Students will have to use knowledge from the class and other
resources in order to develop articulated arguments. It will be the
opportunity to evaluate their capacity to develop critical thinking on a
specific topic. The essay will have to be turned in through Blackboard.

Students facing challenging conditions due to Covid-19 or work related
issues may email the professor to ask for an extension.

**Final feedback (Mandatory to validate the course but not graded)**

Students will have to do a short critical analysis of the semester to
validate the course.

They will send a paragraph about what they consider to be the main thing
they have learned during the semester. They might choose to address an
issue analyzed in class, or how some of the class discussions influenced
the way they understood a situation they faced during the semester.

They will have to write a second paragraph about the classroom as a
geographic space and how it is related to other spaces of their life.

Policy on the Giving of IN as a Grade
-------------------------------------

No incompletes (IN) for this course are given unless there are
exceptional and documented individual circumstances. If you miss an
exam, you must provide a documented reason and make arrangements to make
up the work. If you have a documented extended absence due to illness or
family emergency, you must make arrangements to complete an appropriate
alternative assignment to the in-class discussions.

**Credit/No Credit Policy**

To receive a CR/NC you must have completed [all]{.underline} course
requirements (exams, quizzes, etc.) and request the CR/NC option prior
to beginning the final exam. Based on your final score you will be
assigned a letter grade based on the numerical standards that can be
found on the Â Hunter College homepage at
[[http://www.hunter.cuny.edu/advising/how-to/file-credit-no-credit-cr-nc]{.underline}](http://www.hunter.cuny.edu/advising/how-to/file-credit-no-credit-cr-nc)
(where you can also download a copy of the Credit/No Credit form) or in
the undergraduate catalog at
[[http://catalog.hunter.cuny.edu/content.php?catoid=37&navoid=10489]{.underline}](http://catalog.hunter.cuny.edu/content.php?catoid=37&navoid=10489).

Learning Environment:
---------------------

Professional courtesy and sensitivity are especially important with
respect to individuals and topics dealing with differences of race,
culture, religion, politics, sexual orientation, gender, gender
variance, and nationalities. Class rosters are provided to the
instructor with your legal name. I will gladly honor your request to
address you by an alternate name or gender pronoun. Please advise me of
this preference early in the semester so that I may make appropriate
changes to my records.

You are expected to treat your instructor and all other participants in
the course with courtesy and respect in all interactions (Zoom sessions,
discussion board, emails). Your comments to others should be factual,
constructive, and free from harassing statements. You are encouraged to
disagree with other students, but such disagreements need to be based
upon facts and documentation (rather than prejudices and personalities).

Academic Integrity
------------------

Hunter College regards acts of academic dishonesty (e.g., plagiarism,
cheating on examinations, obtaining unfair advantage, and falsification
of records and official documents) as serious offenses against the
values of intellectual honesty. The College is committed to enforcing
the CUNY Policy on Academic Integrity and will pursue cases of academic
dishonesty according to the Hunter College Academic Integrity
Procedures.

ADA Policy
----------

In compliance with the American Disability Act of 1990 (ADA) and with
Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, Hunter College is
committed to ensuring educational parity and accommodations for all
students with documented disabilities and/or medical conditions. It is
recommended that all students with documented disabilities (Emotional,
Medical, Physical, and/or Learning) consult the Office of AccessABILITY,
located in Room E1214B, to secure necessary academic accommodations. For
further information and assistance, please call: [[(212) 772-
4857]{.underline}](about:blank) or [[(212)
650-3230]{.underline}](about:blank).

Mental Health:
--------------

If you or someone you know is experiencing distress, there are resources
available at Hunter

College to assist you. The Counseling and Wellness Services division at
Student Affairs offer free and confidential short-term counseling to
students. Please visit their website for all contact information:
[<http://www.hunter.cuny.edu/cws/counselingservices/welcome>.]{.underline}

Hunter College Policy on Sexual Misconduct:
-------------------------------------------

In compliance with the CUNY Policy on Sexual Misconduct, Hunter College
reaffirms the prohibition of any sexual misconduct, which includes
sexual violence, sexual harassment, and

gender-based harassment retaliation against students, employees, or
visitors, as well as certain intimate relationships. Students who have
experienced any form of sexual violence on or off campus (including
CUNY-sponsored trips and events) are entitled to the rights outlined in
the Bill of Rights for Hunter College.

a.  Sexual Violence: Students are strongly encouraged to immediately
    report the incident by calling 911, contacting NYPD Special Victims
    Division Hotline (646-610-7272) or their local police precinct, or
    contacting the College\'s Public Safety Office (212-772-4444).

b.  All Other Forms of Sexual Misconduct: Students are also encouraged
    to contact the College\'s Title IX Campus Coordinator, Dean John
    Rose (jtrose\@hunter.cuny.edu or 212-650-3262) or Colleen Barry
    (colleen.barry\@hunter.cuny.edu or 212-772-4534) and seek
    complimentary services through the Counseling and Wellness Services
    Office, Hunter East 1123.

CUNY Policy on Sexual Misconduct Link:
[[http://www.hunter.cuny.edu/diversityandcompliance/repository/files/cuny-policy-on-sexual-misconduct.pdf]{.underline}](http://www.hunter.cuny.edu/diversityandcompliance/repository/files/cuny-policy-on-sexual-misconduct.pdf)

Syllabus Change Policy
----------------------

Except for changes that substantially affect implementation of the
evaluation (grading) statement, this syllabus is a guide for the course
and is subject to change with advance notice. Updates will be posted
regularly on Blackboard.

Preliminary Course Schedule
===========================

+-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
| Date                  | Day                   | Topic                 |
+=======================+=======================+=======================+
| January 28^th^        | Tuesday               | Class introduction    |
+-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
| January 31^st^        | Friday                | Chapter 1: World      |
|                       |                       | Regions in Global     |
|                       |                       | Context               |
+-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
| February 4th          | Tuesday {#tuesday}    | Chapter 1: World Regi |
|                       | -------               | ons in Global Context |
|                       |                       |  {#chapter-1-world-re |
|                       |                       | gions-in-global-conte |
|                       |                       | xt}                   |
|                       |                       | --------------------- |
|                       |                       | --------------------- |
+-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
| February 7^th^        | Friday                | Chapter 2: Europe     |
+-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
| February 11^th^       | Tuesday               | Chapter 2: Europe     |
+-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
| February 14^th^       | Friday                | Chapter 3: The        |
|                       |                       | Russian Federation,   |
|                       |                       | Central Asia and      |
|                       |                       | Transcaucasus         |
+-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
| February 18^th^       | Tuesday               | Chapter 3: The        |
|                       |                       | Russian Federation,   |
|                       |                       | Central Asia and      |
|                       |                       | Transcaucasus         |
+-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
| February 21^st^       | Friday                | Special Topic         |
+-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
| February 25^th^       | Tuesday               | Chapter 4: Middle     |
|                       |                       | East and North Africa |
+-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
| February 28^th^       | Friday                | Chapter 4: Middle     |
|                       |                       | East and North Africa |
+-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
| March 3^rd^           | Tuesday               | Chapter 5:            |
|                       |                       | Sub-saharan Africa    |
+-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
| March 6^th^           | Friday                | Chapter 5:            |
|                       |                       | Sub-saharan Africa    |
+-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
| March 10^th^          | Tuesday               | Essay Guidelines and  |
|                       |                       | special topic         |
+-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
| March 13^th^          | Friday                | Chapter 6: The U.S    |
|                       |                       | and Canada            |
+-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
| March 17^th^          | Tuesday               | Chapter 6: The U.S    |
|                       |                       | and Canada            |
+-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
| March 20^th^          | Friday                | Chapter 7: Latin      |
|                       |                       | America and the       |
|                       |                       | Caribbean             |
+-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
| March 24^th^          | Tuesday               | Chapter 7: Latin      |
|                       |                       | America and the       |
|                       |                       | Caribbean             |
+-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
| March 27^th^          | Friday                | Special topic         |
+-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
| March 31^st^          | Tuesday               | Chapter 8: East Asia  |
+-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
| April 3^rd^           | Friday                | Chapter 8: East Asia  |
+-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
| April 7^th^           | Tuesday               | Classes follow a      |
|                       |                       | Wednesday schedule    |
+-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
| April 10^th^          | Friday                | Spring recess. No     |
|                       |                       | classes               |
+-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
| April 14^th^          | Tuesday               | Spring recess. No     |
|                       |                       | classes               |
+-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
| April 17^th^          | Friday                | Chapter 9: South Asia |
+-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
| April 21^st^          | Tuesday               | Chapter 9: South Asia |
+-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
| April 24^th^          | Friday                | Chapter 10: Southeast |
|                       |                       | Asia                  |
+-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
| April 28^th^          | Tuesday               | Chapter 10: Southeast |
|                       |                       | Asia                  |
+-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
| May 1^st^             | Friday                | Chapter 11: Oceania   |
+-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
| May 5^th^             | Tuesday               | Chapter 11: Oceania   |
+-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
| May 8^th^             | Friday                | Class wrap up -       |
|                       |                       | Special topic         |
+-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
| May 12^th^            | Tuesday               | Final exam review     |
+-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
| May 15^th^ to 22^nd^  |                       | \*\*\*FINAL           |
|                       |                       | EXAM\*\*\*            |
+-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
